---
layout: post
title:  "Husk"
date:   2017-07-20 16:16:01 -0600
categories: Short Story
---

“Yes, that’s me” he stared straight ahead, “I can give you that life”. He finished in his dry, droll voice. He hunched over so he could fit under the door’s archway as he walked in. I had just finished restating the finer point of our agreement – we had only spoken through email up to that point.

He lurched his tall body into the apartment. Tall and stern, his awkward stride had as much personality as his particleboard voice. He was serious, like the subfloor beneath a more charming carpet. He wore a tan trench coat, brown shoes and beige slacks all strapped over a white t-shirt which too had an amber hue from all the drab bouncing onto it. He was serious. His glasses seamed cemented into his focused brow, his pupils big and unblinking in their reflection. He slowly pulled himself back into standing. He could’ve snapped me in half, but I didn’t even think about that, then.

“So that’s all there is to it?” I asked.

“That’s all” unblinking.

“One night?”

“One night.”

“At $40 an hour?”

“$40 an hour.” He maintained his composure but I was beginning to see the humanity in him. For as flat as he was he couldn’t help his puffy cheeks, he couldn’t help the soft red under his eyes or the cleft in his weak chin. He never smiled but his cheeks couldn’t help it.
Of course, I didn’t think about that, then.

“Well alright then, lets get started” I said, rubbing my hands together gluttonously.

“Sure,” he sealed the deal. I stepped aside and revealed the glowing box behind me. A Dell i087 - in all its backlit glory. In two and half strides of his behemoth limbs he went from the doorway to the desk with the computer, removed his coat and hat, and sat down at the computer. Without so much as a stretch or even a deep breath he immediately went to work on the keypad. Tapping away as if he had been waiting to type for years, like he finally at ease, setting into the keyboard as if he were plugging himself in.  The screen reflected in his glasses as he typed. He started at 7 exactly. It was winter and it was already dark. I made a pot of coffee.

“40 dollars an hour” I couldn’t help but think. It was gonna hurt me. I’d have to prepare to go hungry in the coming weeks. In the days leading up to tonight I rationed my muesli and bread for the weeks that would follow after. I knew exactly how much I had left and how much I would need but I portioned it out in my head again and again anyway. As pointless as it was - I didn’t know what else to think about. It was 11 o clock and he hadn’t even looked up. I was on my second and a half cup of coffee. I’d have another one and half before twelve. The pot would go bad by then anyway.

I’d stare over his shoulder as he typed. A million tabs open in his browser, new ones opening and old ones closing every five seconds. I’d ask him questions but he’d only respond with grunts - He had a job to do. I’d pass the time drunk in my coffee fueled fantasies. Totally consumed by dreams of a better life. A better life in my grasp! A better life one more pot of coffee away! A new morning, a new night after and another dawn after that! $40 dollars? I’d pay $100, $200! Whatever I could get my hands on to pay it! On the cusp of such a change I deserve another cup of coffee! What better way to send off this worn out husk of an old me!
The man, @jericho, his handle was, typed. Ignoring the mouse as if it were some sort of childish plaything, he was working. I dreamed, I dreamed in caffeinated ecstasy letting myself indulge in the corniest of voices I would never even say to old lovers. “My new life. My new life as a designer.”

The sun was an hour away from rising. It was 3. I was halfway through a mildewed pot. Still enamored with my private vision. @jericho, still typing. I’d lost track of the time dreaming about my new life – viral blog posts, funny tweets, printed monographs, NPR interviews, collaborations with street artists. Sure, I knew that was too much but this was the beginning! Worst case scenario, I could get a job that paid, that saved me from another year of PB & J, another year of mounting credit card debt, another year of taking and instead a year of helping! I could go on a date! I could buy my friends presents on their birthday! Instead of a bottle of beer I couldn’t afford, it’d be a meal, maybe a weeks worth of them! Maybe a special vinyl record no one else could get!? Five cups deep, thinking this with @jericho’s tip tap, click clack, numeral numeral, space hashtag return, was music to my ears, the soundtrack to the opening credits of my new life!
The typing stopped.

I jerked my head with coffee fueled shock, my dry eyes, dryer from undo focus. He wiped his brow, let out a shallow sigh, and got back to it. It was 5 o’ clock.

7 rolled around. 480 dollars – I’d never make the water bill at this point. I looked over. @jericho took a long restful blink. Maybe his first of the night. His head cocked up toward the ceiling, he almost looked like he was in pain. But, in the early morning, with the sunlight and the birds and no more tick tacking, it was very peaceful. He leaned back down, rubbed both his eyes with his right hand and then grabbed the mouse and with it closed the boxes on his computer screen.

I waited in poised anticipation. Ready to leap from my chair into the pillowy possibilities of my new life at his word. He sat there for a moment, sighed, and as easily as he sat down, he grabbed his coat, adjusted his glasses and stood up.

“It is done” the computer golem said in his grim voice. Still coiled on my chair, I became overwhelmed. This most banal journey, this most arduous uneventful one nighter had led me to an immense world of possibilities I wasn’t sure I could entirely keep up with.
I was overloaded. All night my phone had been exploding with rings and then vibrations until finally I had to turn it off out of pure excitement, saving the first glimpse at the sheer volume for all at once when the job was done. My drawings and doodles had more likes in five minutes than I had in a lifetime, my blog posts were shared, my videos were commented on, my tweets were retweeted, my hashtags caught on, my latest logo had become an overnight sensation!

It’d be easy to get a job now! Who wouldn’t want me!!!? And I owe it all to this man! This Frankenstein of a man!

I leapt from my chair, not for the computer but for his hand.
“Thank you thank you thank you my friend you don’t know what this means to me are you sure 480’s all you want? Sure, I’ll give you 500. 500 at least I won’t take no, maybe 500 and breakfast what do you say?”

He shook my hand with firm gratitude. “No, thank you. I have to get back, but thank you.” He appreciated it, I knew.

I walked with him toward the door, ecstatic. He got his money and I got my new life. How could we not be happy? I was going to smoke a cigarette and drink all day, one more day to shed this officially useless husk of mine.

The coffee talked though I was inspired – “How do you do it man. How do you do it? You could do anything with talent like that you know, literally anything!”

He turned at the archway, just before he would have had to duck out. He turned around to say goodbye. Humbly, he said, “Most of the work is in the research” and with that, he put on his beige nostalgia drenched coat, it was so out of place, and left as quickly as he came.

I’d never see him again, not in real life, email or even social media, I suppose that was apart of the agreement. He must’ve been the hardest working person I’d ever met, but I didn’t think about that, then, I looked out the window and only thought of my new life. The new possibilities that awaited me, the hard work that lay ahead and how completely fucked up I’d have to get, to finally say goodbye to this old husk of mine and fully, finally step into my new one. My real one, I hoped. It was hope then.
